Add document about removing checkout fields and add FAQ doc (#53999)
woocommerce/woocommerce: docs/cart-and-checkout-blocks/removing-checkout-fields.md

---
post_title: Cart and Checkout - Removing checkout fields
menu_title: Extensibility
tags: reference
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->

> If you're trying to extend the new Checkout block, you might notice the previous `checkout_fields` isn't working. This is intentional, we're taking back control of how to render and handle fields, yet, one of the most common requests we get is how to disable Checkout fields for certain order types. For a long time, our answer was "you can't". You actually can, but we don't encourage it.

Reviewer: Not sure if we want to include this verbatim? I'm more comfortable speaking like this in my blog but dunno from Woo? Let's see keep it and see what dev advocacy say later.

Author: I reworded it.

## Why we don't encourage removing fields

The simple reason is that Checkout is complex, and many plugins need different data, payment methods will need your address info to run fraud detection, or validate your card, tax (including core) will need your full address to calculate taxes correctly, this is something we still think about in Checkout and are looking for a universal solution, until then, you can go with code, and here's how:

## Disabling fields for a single country

> Checkout fields still country locale, which means you can modify fields for a country via PHP and this would work fine. The following billing form has 10 fields, 7 of them are required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checkout fields still respects country locale, which means you can modify fields for a country via PHP and this would work fine. The following billing form has 10 fields, 7 of them are required:
```

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/63d83769-c20c-4c85-aebf-da8510d1d9ae)

Let's say that in Algeria, we know for sure that postal code and city are redundant, so we can remove them:

```php
add_filter('woocommerce_get_country_locale', function( $locale ) {

	$locale['DZ']['postcode']['required'] = false;
	$locale['DZ']['postcode']['hidden'] = true;

	$locale['DZ']['city']['required'] = false;
	$locale['DZ']['city']['hidden'] = true;

> 		return $locale;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	 return $locale;
```

});
```

With the code above, both of those fields are removed for Algeria, but not for other countries, which is a good and safe update.

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/96d45e1a-99f0-4b91-92d1-85ee742a9705)

Keep in mind that this will remove fields for both shipping and billing. We think strongly that billing shape should match shipping shape.

## Removing every field except Country and names

We can follow up with removing all other fields except Country, removing the country would fail your order, as we need country to know which fields to remove:

```php
add_filter('woocommerce_get_country_locale', function( $locale ) {

	$locale['DZ']['address_1'] = [
		'required' => false,
		'hidden'   => true,
	];

	$locale['DZ']['postcode'] = [
		'required' => false,
		'hidden'   => true,
	];

	$locale['DZ']['city'] = [
		'required' => false,
		'hidden'   => true,
	];

> 	$locale['DZ']['state'] = [
> 		'required' => false,
> 		'hidden'   => true,
> 	];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	$locale['DZ']['company'] = [
		'required' => false,
		'hidden'   => true,
	];
	
	$locale['DZ']['state'] = [
		'required' => false,
		'hidden'   => true,
	];
	
	$locale['DZ']['phone'] = [
		'required' => false,
		'hidden'   => true,
	];
```

Since published, we can now remove phone and company via PHP, I added them here.

> 		return $locale;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	return $locale;
```

});
```

This is the result:

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19c82877-3405-4762-82ce-e952746abe66)

> You notice 2 things:
> 
> - Address Line 2 is not visible, this is because it will always be skipped if Address Line 1 is skipped.
> - Phone and Company can be controlled the same way as others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You notice that Address Line 2 is not visible, this is because it will always be skipped if Address Line 1 is skipped.
```

This would be the result:

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3bb8dc23-22cc-4787-8577-648081e57644)

## Removing Company and Phone via code

Unlike other fields, Phone, Company, and Address 2 state is persisted to the database via an option:

- `woocommerce_checkout_phone_field`
- `woocommerce_checkout_company_field`
- `woocommerce_checkout_address_2_field`

The value of those options can be: `required`, `optional`, or `hidden`. They manage the default state of the field. So you can edit that, but still leave agency to the merchant to set it as they see fit. You can also edit them based on locale/country.

To edit the default value:

```php
add_filter(
	'default_option_woocommerce_checkout_phone_field',
	function ( $default_value ) {
		return "required";
	},
	10,
	1
);
```

If you want to change the value depending on locale (overriding the merchant value for that country), you can use the examples above.

Till now, all changes are applied to Algeria only, customers switching would see the correct fields for each country:

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b8cb49a-1c95-4fab-8aaa-26b14ce22aad)

## Applying changes to all countries you sell to

> As with the above, this is not something I recommend unless you sell to a very controlled set of countries and tested this with each country. Some payment gateways would only enable fraud detection on production mode and not test mode, and your fields that passed test mode fails in production mode, but here it is regardless:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the above, this is not something we recommend unless you sell to a very controlled set of countries and tested this with each country. Some payment gateways would only enable fraud detection on production mode and not test mode, and your fields that passed test mode fails in production mode, but here it is regardless:
```
